These files are shell and perl scripts used for configuring/building R.
They are not required at run time, and hence not installed.

The files are as follows.

  config.guess
  config.sub
  install-sh
  mdate-sh
  missing
	standard tools from GNU autoconf.  Taken from the autoconf CVS
	(pserver:anoncvs@subversions.gnu.org:/cvsroot/autoconf, module 
	'autoconf').

  GETCONFIG
	create API 'Rconfig.h' from the configure information in
	'config.h'.
  GETDISTNAME
	get the name of the distribution tarball.
  GETMAKEVAL
	get the value of a Make variable from a Makefile [this needs to
	be improved].
  GETVERSION
	create API 'Rversion.h' from 'VERSION' and 'SVN-REVISION'.
  
  Rdnewer.pl
	determine whether any Rd file in an Rd tree is newer than a
	given file.
  
  copy-if-change
	copy a file if changed; otherwise, do nothing.

  getsp.class
  getsp.java
	Java class (source and compiled bytecode) used for extracting
	system properties when detecting Java support in configure.
	We don't require the existence of a Java compiler, so we need
	to supply the compiled version as well.

  help2man.pl
	generate simple manual pages from program output.  Taken from
	the GNU help2man package (ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/help2man/).
	
  install-info.pl
	create or update entry in Info directory.  Taken from the Debian
	GNU/Linux stable distribution.

  keywords2html.pl
	convert 'KEYWORDS.db' to HTML.
	
  ldAIX4
	writes an export file, assembling the exported symbols by
	reading the output of nm.  This file is needed on AIX (4.2 and
	later) to compile shared libs.

  link-recommended
	create links with simplified names to the recommended packages.
  
  linkcheck.pl
	comment out links that are not available.

  ltmain.sh
	provide generalized library-building support services.  Taken
	from Libtool 1.5; older versions taken from the Libtool CVS
	(:pserver:anoncvs@subversions.gnu.org:/cvsroot/libtool, module
	'libtool').

  move-if-change
	move a file if changed; otherwise, remove.

  pkg2tex.pl
	create a single 'PKGNAME-pkg.tex' file from the package docs in
	LaTeX format.

  rsync-recommended
	obtain sources for the recommended packages using rsync, and then
	create links with simplified names to these.

  updatefat
	updates a fat file by adding a new architecture (Mac OS X only)
	it is essentially a smart wrapper for "lipo".
